# STA215-Final-Project
My replication package for my STA-215 final project. Me and my group conducted an extensive research on four different television shows and analyzed multiple facets of them in order to properly record information.
# Instructions
To access and utilize the script, open the "STA215-MURPHY.R" file, which contains the code for my project. To view the dataset, simply open the "raw_data.csv" file.
# Data
The data collected on these shows were episodes from four tv shows, those being, Breaking Bad, Demon Slayer, Suits, and Only Murders In The Building. Primarily the episodes observed all come from the firswt two seasons of each show, with the goal of the analysis being to properly operationalize and record all required data.
# Operationalization
To operationalize length, all that was necessary to do was t find out how long each episode measured out to be. Rating was treated mre as a categorical variable with its value taken from imdb.com for each series. Date was recorded by when the episode was released. Recurring characters were measured as a quantitative variable and this was accomplished by counting the amount of recurring characters appeared in an episode. Background characters was measured in the same manner as recurring characters. Episode number wsa simply measured asan ordinal variable as episodes have an inherent ranking or order to progress in. Season was measued by what season the spisode came from as another ordinal variable. We made a slew of qualitative variables such as scream, gore, cry, plot, action, funny, tone, and name. The majority of these were measured in a manner of "did this occur" with the exceptions being gory, plot, action, name and tone. Gory was measured on a scale of 1-5 based on how detailed or graphic an episode was. Plot was measured by if the episode was meaningful to the overall plot of the story. Action was interpreted by the episode being action pakced, i.e. having fight scenes. Tne was determined by the overall subjectively feel the episode had, being humorous, serious, melancholic, inspirational, ironic, narrative, romantic, or somber. Depending on the name of the episode that essentially became the variable. Cast was operationalized as how many main characters appeared in the episode, while writers was determined by how many writers contributed or were credited on an episode.
